The management decisions
Hello, colleagues.
Today we will talk about a very interesting topic for you,
which you probably face in the process of your practical activity.
This is the adoption of management decisions based on the principles and methods of management accounting.
First, I will introduce myself.
I am Skalkin Vladimir Vladimirovich, a candidate for Economics.
I also have a certificate of a financial manager from the Southern Alberta Institute of Technology,
Calgary, Canada, where I worked, taught and provided consulting services.
Now I work as the head of the Moscow University of Tours,
an American university that provides American education.
I have also had to carry out various projects and work as a consultant in well-known companies such as Luke Oil and Gazprom.
I also have been in charge of accounting for a number of companies related to the cosmetics industry and the construction industry.
I would like to say a few words about what we will be talking about today.
You are familiar with accounting, of course.
Many people think that accounting is necessary only to pay taxes.
But this is a rather one-sided view and a very small part of accounting.
Another part of it, which is more well-known, is financial accounting,
which provides the necessary accountability for companies to be able to go to the stock exchange,
to issue shares, the so-called IPO, which is now in great fashion,
and also to be able to report to their foreign partners and the public,
who are interested in how much the shares of these companies are being sold and are going to make investment decisions.
But there is also a third type of accounting, which is not used so often,
because there are no requirements that really force companies to use accounting.
It is accounting.
It is not required by the tax authorities, it is not required by the Commission on Valuable Papers and Stock Exchanges.
Nevertheless, those companies that realized that management decisions should be applied only based on specific information,
have a much greater advantage in their activities and more competitive advantage in their markets.
This will be the main topic of our lesson today.
Our video lecture will consist of the following sections.
This is the concept of management analysis.
Next, we will talk about the things like the traceability of costs and what costs are in production and in trading,
and how to deal with them, how to take them into account and how to track them for decision-making.
Next, a very interesting topic is the analysis of the profitability of production,
that is, the determination of the point from which a company can successfully sell its products and make a profit.
Next, of course, the assortment of products and the planning of the assortment of products will also be the subject of our consideration.
After that, we will move on to the analysis of some decision-making on pricing.
And then we will move on to the concept of regulatory costs and the standard cost system.
And we will finish with the theoretical foundations of the Direct Costing system.
Management Analysis
So, management analysis. What is management analysis?
Any manager makes decisions during his or her activities.
These decisions can be based on various factors.
These decisions can be based on emotions, intuition, on someone's order, a wish, on a tradition.
All these types of decisions are present in business, and you all know about it very well.
But among all types of decisions, there is only one type of decision that is considered reasonable and rational.
These decisions are based on accurate information that the management system gives.
This is exactly what is necessary for every modern company today.
And it is necessary for the decisions to be exactly as they should be.
These decisions should be based on information.
These are rational and reasonable decisions.
Management analysis allows companies to focus on their core competencies.
What are these core competencies?
These are the things that companies can do better than others.
The things that other companies cannot do better than them.
At the same time, companies cannot do what other companies can do.
This is also very important.
Because the price of opportunities lies at the core of all decisions and assessments.
If we do something, we give up some alternatives.
This means that we do not do something else.
Any thing should always be compared to what we could do instead.
So, what does the company put all its efforts on?
What gives the company an advantage over its competitors?
For example, the main competencies of Sony are design and manufacture of electronic devices for consumers.
These devices are smaller in size and better in quality.
Can Sony do something else?
Can Sony melt metal?
Of course, it can.
But what will be the price?
The price will be that Sony will not make electronic devices.
What should Sony do if it needs to focus on its core competencies?
For this, companies need to do what is now called outsourcing.
This means that the functions that a company can give to other companies,
the functions that can be performed much better and cheaper by other companies,
should not be performed.
It is better to specialize in what you can do best.
So, outsourcing is the attraction of third parties or other companies to perform the work
that is necessary to carry out the process or service of the function
that is not part of the company's core competencies.
For example, the core competencies of Nike are design and marketing of sports shoes.
The company does not make the shoes itself,
but attracts third parties to make the work,
by contacting the company that specializes in the production of shoes.
We know that Nike is active in a lot of countries around the world.
Recently, Nike has moved production to countries with cheaper labor.
For example, it is already widely known that Nike has its own enterprises in Vietnam,
where labor prices are cheaper than in China.
This allows Nike to maintain the quality of production,
to maintain the design and, at the same time,
to use the advantages of international labor division
and to market its production in countries where labor is much cheaper
and where production is much cheaper and there are fewer other problems,
including with local governments.
Let's look at an example at a specific factory,
at a specific company that allows you to determine
how to carry out the activity,
what to do and what is best to pass on to other companies as outsourcing.
We will use the example of a company.
This company is fictional,
and the people mentioned in this example, as well as in other examples, do not exist.
If there are any coincidences, they can be accidental.
So, we use such a fictional example.
Evgeny Stibelsky is the owner of a chocolate company named after him.
He is interested in knowing,
he is interested in the exact information about the cost of chocolate he produces
and he must determine whether the production and sale of his own brand of chocolate will be profitable
and whether they will remain competitive.
He can design the design, structure, recipe of this product,
he can produce it,
and he can sell the chocolate to a factory that has more competence
and can do it much more cheaply.
So, Evgeny sells chocolate for 1000 rubles per kilogram.
Of course, the numbers are approximate,
they are not related to the current situation.
You know, the numbers can change, the prices can change.
That's why we use the conditional units.
If you know that the prices for this product are at the same level as for other products,
don't think about it.
The number 1000 is convenient for calculation.
That's the only reason why we use this number.
So, Evgeny has an idea about how much chocolate he can sell during the first year of the company.
He gives the task to his accountant, Sergey Chezov,
to analyze the whole chain of creation of cost
and design initial costs per kilogram of product.
So, what did the chief accountant give us?
Let's look at the following table.
These are the estimated costs of making the exclusive chocolate of a new variety, Umka.
The table consists of three columns.
The first column considers the stages of the production process.
The second column considers the initial cost per kilogram
and the second column considers the revised cost.
That is, the cost we can get if we carry out the required measures.
So, the stages of the production process.
Research and development.
The chocolate will cost 25 rubles per kilogram in both cases.
Design work will cost 10 rubles.
Supply will cost 110 rubles.
But in case of revision of the strategy, it will cost only 60 rubles.
Production will be saved from 450 rubles to 350 rubles.
Marketing will be the same, 50 rubles per kilogram.
Distribution and service will be the same, 90 rubles and 65 rubles.
So, the cost in the initial variant per kilogram will be 800 rubles.
The revised cost after the necessary measures will be 650 rubles.
That is, we save 150 rubles.
Of course, the head of the company, Stibelsky, is interested in reducing the initial cost,
which is now 800 rubles.
What does 800 rubles per kilogram mean?
It means that only 200 rubles per kilogram remains to cover all services
for the production of the product and to get the profit.
This difference is the margin, which is 20% of the income.
That is, if we take the price of the product,
calculate the cost, divide it by the price,
1000 rubles minus 800 rubles divided by 1000 rubles
will be 200 divided by 1000, 20%.
Is this a lot?
Evgeny thinks it's not a lot, so something needs to be done.
What does Evgeny think?
The margin should be at least 35% for the enterprise to be successful.
Can we increase the price?
Yes, we can think about it, but the starting price is limited by competition.
Therefore, the only way for Evgeny is to find a way to reduce the costs.
What does the chief accountant tell him?
Sergey.
Sergey says that the highest costs in the chain of production cost
are the costs for the production and supply,
which are related to the production itself.
What are the ways to reduce the cost per kilogram?
The first way is to sell higher volumes.
This product, chocolate.
Is this realistic?
No, it's not realistic.
The next way is to reduce the costs.
Using a single supplier.
Evgeny planned to order materials from many suppliers,
but the orders will not be large enough to get discounts for the volume.
The savings on discounts for the volume is equal to 50 rubles per kilogram.
This is not the biggest advantage that can be used.
The third way is outsourcing.
The company attracts third parties to work on the production of chocolate.
A chocolate manufacturer with a large volume of products
can produce a product at a much lower cost
than the one that could be made at the factory.
The production cost will be 350 rubles per kilogram
versus 450 rubles per kilogram,
if it is produced for 100 rubles,
which is the savings from outsourcing production per kilogram.
That is, 450 rubles minus 350 rubles.
This cost savings would allow the company to sell its chocolate
at a competitive price of 10 rubles and get a 35% discount.
The calculation.
The initial cost for 1 kilogram is 800 rubles.
The cost of changing the cost of using one supplier is 50 rubles.
The cost of reducing the cost of outsourcing production is 100 rubles.
The total cost of outsourcing production is 650 rubles.
Now we are calculating the new margin.
The new margin will be 1000 rubles minus 650 rubles divided by 1000 rubles,
which is 0.35 or 35%.
Conclusions.
Two important conclusions are illustrated by this analysis.
First, the mission of the enterprise.
The enterprise, as a retail seller,
has no production experience in the production of chocolate.
The company should change its mission
and make the main changes in the way it does business.
Often, this is the best policy,
which is to attract third parties to perform the work
of creating a cost chain,
which is not a part of the company's main competence.
Since the company does not have the main competence in the production of chocolate,
it would not be competitive enough to continue working in this area.
Now we will move on to the second part of our lecture,
which is the traceability of costs.
We have already considered the example of what information is needed
to make management decisions.
We have considered the example of reducing costs
in two ways,
by attaching to a single supplier and by outsourcing.
But this is just the beginning of what we have to study.
In order to study the information
necessary for making management decisions in more detail,
it is necessary to consider the essence of costs.
Yes, in our activities, we all face various costs.
These costs are in our personal lives,
in production and in trade.
We all live around costs.
But is it enough to understand their essence?
Is it enough to classify them
so that based on the various classifications and the essence of costs,
we can make the necessary decisions?
Managers track costs on the cost objects
to achieve a fairly accurate measurement of costs.
Cost objects include products or services.
That is, we can, by producing a number of products,
focus on the costs and take into account the costs of each of these products.
That is, if we have five types of cars that we produce,
we can allocate costs for each of these cars.
If we provide services, for example, medical services,
and we carry out five types of various medical services,
then we can allocate costs for each of these types.
The next type of cost object is the sales area.
For example, a company sells goods in Moscow,
St. Petersburg, Yekaterinburg, Krasnodar, Kiev, Minsk, and other cities.
Each of these cities can be classified as a cost.
All costs associated with each of the cities will be considered a cost object.
The next type of cost classification includes departments or units of the organization.
What does this mean?
The organization has several departments.
Production department, sales department, shopping department, marketing department,
personnel management department, finance department, accounting department.
Each of these departments can be classified as a cost,
and each of these departments will be a cost object.
And operational activities.
A company can carry out several types of activities.
For example, a bank can support citizens' deposits,
that is, the so-called retail.
A bank can also engage in investment activities,
can serve corporate clients,
can carry out various procedures related to the maintenance of trust operations.
All of these types of activities can also be a cost object.
Next, we will look at direct and indirect cost measures.
Direct and indirect.
What does this mean?
Direct costs are costs that directly relate to the cost object.
At the same time, indirect costs cannot directly relate to the cost object.
For example, direct costs are labor costs to manufacture a nut in production.
Labor costs are direct costs.
But, for example, the amortization of equipment for the manufacture of the same nut is a direct cost.
A direct cost.
These direct and indirect cost measures are used to support price decisions,
that is, decisions on price determination,
as well as decisions on redistribution of resources to other cost objects.
That is, we either have to distribute resources, or we have to work with prices.
What are direct costs?
Direct costs are costs that can be conveniently and economically traced to the cost object.
For example, the cost object is the flight of the air fleet.
That is, the flight of the air fleet takes off with passengers,
and we consider this flight as a cost object.
One single, separate flight.
What are the direct costs in this flight?
Crew salary.
Crew salary is based on the time spent and tariff estimates,
which are shown on the work time and payment details.
Fuel costs.
Yes, we can say exactly how much the crew will be paid for one flight.
We can also say exactly how much fuel one flight of the aircraft will consume.
What are indirect costs?
Indirect costs are costs that cannot be conveniently and economically traced to the cost object.
Examples.
Nails used to assemble furniture.
Salt used to make cookies.
Rivets used in airplanes.
Also, indirect costs may be aircraft suspension.
These costs must be included in the costs for the product and service.
To be precise, so that we can say exactly how much each action we carry out costs.
How much does each flight of the aircraft cost?
How much does each pack of cookies cost?
How much does each made wardrobe or chair cost?
These indirect costs are also related to the cost of a certain developed formula.
We will talk later how this can be done, because a lot depends on how we distribute these costs.
Knowledge of how these costs are distributed will allow us to make decisions and take into account everything we do.
And to carry out our activities more effectively.
So, costs for the insurance of the air fleet.
A portion of the costs is related to the cost of each flight.
For example, we have made insurance costs that are carried out once a year.
But how many flights does each aircraft carry out during the year?
We must now take the costs carried out completely during the year and divide them by the number of flights.
By the number of flights.
A portion of the costs is related to the cost of each flight.
Let's look at a number of other examples of the cost of the insurance.
Service organization.
Costs.
Preparation of the tax report.
This is a fairly common procedure.
What are the direct costs and what are the indirect costs?
Direct costs to prepare the tax report.
What is needed?
Paper, computer and the work of an accountant.
All these costs can be directly attributed to the preparation of the report.
For example, it is clear how much paper is needed to print and prepare the tax report.
The computer also takes a certain amount of time.
And we can say how much time the computer takes.
The work of an accountant.
The accountant spends a certain amount of time and we can accurately estimate how much time the accountant will spend to prepare the tax report.
But there are also indirect costs that cannot be directly attributed to the tax report.
These are the consumables.
Of course, we can attribute how many cartridges will be used, how many pencils, pens.
But no one will count these pens, pencils, cartridges and other consumables.
Because there is no point in doing this.
Next, the rent of the office.
The rent of the office will not be calculated separately for each separate report or separate document.
The utility services, the payment of utilities, electricity, heating, water and other services will not be attributed separately to each tax report.
Just like the amortization of office furniture.
All these expenses have no sense to be attributed to each separately produced product, whether it is a tax report or a car for the automotive industry.
The organization of retail trade.
What types of costs are there?
The cost of shoes.
Direct costs.
The cost of shoes and the salary of the workers in the shoe department.
We can say exactly how much it is necessary to spend to buy shoes for sale.
And we know exactly how much salary will be paid to the workers who work in this department.
But indirect costs such as insurance, utility services, taxes, shoe storage, goods care will not be considered separately for each separately produced product.
That is what separates indirect costs from direct costs.
In a production organization, the cost of production is the direct costs.
These are costs for labor and materials.
In order to produce a product, several consecutive operations are needed.
Each operation requires labor and materials.
We can say exactly how much labor and materials are needed for each production.
How much labor is needed to assemble a car, to assemble all the parts that are included in its composition, to fit and to fix it.
We can also say how much material costs are.
But there are indirect costs that are used when making the same cars.
That is utility services, amortization of equipment and machines, insurance, taxes, effort to control the quality, management, maintenance and operation of equipment, storage and handling of materials.
All of this is indirect costs.
We have learned that direct costs can be direct and indirect.
Direct costs are costs that can be directly attributed to the cost of the product.
Indirect costs are costs that can be attributed but are not necessary.
Therefore, they are never attributed to the cost of the product.
There is no point in doing this.
Efforts to attribute these costs to the cost of the product will not cost the economy that we will get from what we have done.
Let's move on to a very interesting and necessary topic related to decision-making.
This is the analysis of production profitability.
The task is to determine the concept of the dynamics of costs and explain how the manager uses this concept in the management cycle.
Here we introduce a new term, the dynamics of costs.
That is, not just how the costs are divided, but how they change with the change in the volume of production and the volume of sales.
The dynamics of costs are very important.
The dynamics of costs are an important factor in decision-making.
The dynamics of costs are used in the analysis of alternatives and in decision-making.
The best decision will bring more profits for the business owner, better liquidity for creditors.
So, what is the dynamics of costs?
The answer is that the dynamics of costs are how the costs change with the change in the volume of production.
Now that we know what the dynamics of costs are, how they change with the change in the volume of production and sales,
let's define the variable, constant, mixed costs and divide the mixed costs into their constant variable components.
How can we observe the dynamics of costs?
It is always related to the production of products and services.
It manifests itself in commercial, administrative and general economic activities.
If managers can predict the dynamics of costs, the costs become manageable.
There is an old story, a legend, where this idea came from, the idea of analyzing the dynamics of costs.
It was once believed that if you start your business, you need to get support from a banker.
It used to be done by inviting a banker to a restaurant and explaining how the business would work and why the banker should give money for the development of the business.
So, at the most important moment, you need to explain in three simple words why this business will pay itself.
What is at hand?
Nothing.
The restaurant's table, the tablecloth, the food, and a box of napkins.
You take a napkin and make a business plan on it.
How many napkins can you put on it?
Only three numbers.
Three numbers are variable costs, constant costs, and the number of products.
Using these three numbers, you can convince a banker to give money for the development of the business.
Of course, it is more like a legend, a fairy tale, but there is a lot of rationality in it.
That's why we use this theory, which is almost a joke, but at the same time it has a lot of meaning and application.
A modern manager needs to have an idea of what are the constant variable costs, because only then can you determine when the business will pay itself and whether it will pay itself at all.
So, let's make a definition.
Variable costs are those that change with the change of production volume.
Constant costs remain constant with the change of production volume.
That is, no matter how much we produce and sell, the costs will be the same.
Variable costs will change. We sell little, we produce little, the costs are small.
We increase the volume of production and sales, the costs increase.
This division always gives us the opportunity to make decisions.
Mixed costs are those that show characteristics of both constant and variable costs.
Variable costs are costs that change with the change of production volume or other activity.
That is, one product is 1 ruble, two products are 2 rubles, three products are 3 rubles.
This is an example of a direct proportional change in costs.
Let's look at the table.
How do variable costs change?
That is, the dynamics of variable costs.
In this table we see three columns.
The number of produced cars, the total cost of cars and the cost of cars per 1 car in rubles.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the prices do not correspond to the real prices that we can observe on the market.
Prices are given conditionally.
For one car, the cost of tires per 1 car is 1920 rubles.
The total cost of tires per 1 car is 1920 rubles.
Why?
The cost of tires per 1 car is multiplied by the number of produced cars.
Next, if we have two cars, we must multiply the number 1920 by 2.
We get 3840.
Next, we multiply by 3, 4, 5, depending on how many cars we have produced.
And for 10 cars, this number will correspond to 19200.
Thus, we see how variable costs change.
They are directly proportional to the number of produced cars.
In this diagram, we see how this is illustrated.
That is, variable costs per unit of production are constant.
The cost of tires per 1 car will be a constant value.
And the total cost of tires is a variable cost, since it changes directly proportional to the number of produced cars.
Now let's look at constant costs.
These are costs that remain unchanged within the range of predictability of the production volume or other activity.
To do this, we must define the concept of the range of predictability.
What is it?
This is the size of the production in which a large-scale base is used to calculate constant costs,
and most likely will be carried out in the current production plan.
Naturally, the dynamics of constant costs are different from the dynamics of variable costs.
According to the economic theory, all costs are variable in the long term.
If we recall the economic theory, we know that there is a short-term approach,
when the number of costs is related to the number of produced products, and a long-term approach.
That is, we need to increase the number of enterprises in order to produce more products.
To build one enterprise, you need to spend several years,
but every time the number of enterprises increases, so-called constant costs also increase.
That is, in the long term, any costs are variable.
All costs are variable, since all prices change, salaries change, prices for materials, services, everything changes.
That is, in the long term, all costs are variable.
Nevertheless, in the short term, we can divide the costs that are variable from the costs that are constant.
Therefore, costs can be constant or fixed only in a limited period.
That is, for the purpose of management, this is usually not more than one year.
And during this one year, it is assumed that constant costs will be unchanged.
An example of constant costs.
A cannery manufacturer needs one master of change for an eight-hour shift.
The volume of production can vary from 0 to 500,000 cans per month per shift.
The salary of the master of change is 40,000 rubles per month.
Again, I remind you that all prices and figures are conditional and are only given as an example.
So, the range of production volume can vary from 0 to 500,000 cans.
If we remember the variable costs, we know that the variable costs for each cannery will change proportionally.
What happens to constant costs?
Constant costs will be the same.
Either we have 0 produced cans or 500,000 cans.
That is, for one month, one shift.
Per month, one shift.
We see that constant costs do not depend on the volume of production.
Why is that?
Because the master of change receives 40,000 rubles per month.
Regardless of whether he is on a constant rate and receives this salary, regardless of whether he was given an order or not.
This is the essence of his contract with the employer.
In any case, we must pay the master 40,000 rubles for work.
Even if we have 1, 2 or more cans.
At the same time, we will pay him the same amount if 500,000 cans are produced.
What will happen if more than 500,000 cans are produced?
He simply will not be able to control this volume of work.
Therefore, we must hire another master of change.
And we must also set up another shift.
That is, what happens?
500,000 cans.
Up to 500,000 cans, we will have the same salary of the master of change.
But if we have 500,000 and 10 cans, and we set up a new shift,
even if in the second shift he only released 10 cans, he will still have to pay 40,000 rubles.
If he produces the same 500,000 cans,
that is, we will have a million cans produced in two shifts in a month,
we see that we will pay the same 40,000 rubles plus 40,000 rubles, 80,000 rubles per month for two masters.
This is what is called constant costs within a certain range.
What is the range?
The range is from 0 to 500,000.
The next range is from 500,000 to a million.
What will happen next?
If we need to produce more than a million cans,
we hire a third master, and in three shifts the plant will produce 500,000 cans,
500,000 cans per shift, a million in two shifts.
And now let's think about what will happen if we need more than a million and a half cans.
Three shifts are already taken.
We can't increase the number of cans produced from aluminum by hiring a third master.
We need to place the production on a new production area,
open an additional workshop, maybe open an additional plant.
This is the concept of the range and the concept of constant costs.
Let's summarize.
We see a table with the number of cans per month and the total salary of shift masters per month in rubles.
That is, from 0 to 500,000 cans, the salary of shift masters will be 40,000 rubles,
and from 500,000 to a million, 80,000.
If another shift is added, new constant costs remain constant within the new range.
Constant costs per unit of production change in the opposite dependency on the volume of production,
that is, with the increase in the volume of production, constant costs per unit decrease.
Now let's see how this happens.
In this table we see the volume of production in pieces, cans, and costs per unit of production,
that is, costs per can.
100,000 cans.
We divide 40,000 rubles, the salary of the shift master, into 100,000 cans,
and we have costs per unit of production of 40 kopecks.
With 300,000 cans, 40,000 is divided by 300,000 and we get 13.3 kopecks per can.
With 500,000 cans, 40,000 is divided by 500,000 and we get 8 kopecks per can.
With 600,000, we divide 40,000 by 600,000 and we get 1.03 kopecks.
With 600,000 cans, the volume of production is higher than the volume of predictability,
which means that another shift must be added and another shift master hired.
Now let's look at the table where the dependence of the volume of production of cans in pieces
and the costs per unit of production in rubles are shown.
That is, how much does one can cost when we divide the salary of the shift master into the number of cans.
With 100,000 cans, we see 40,000 divided by 100,000 and we get 40 kopecks.
With 300,000 cans, 40,000 is divided by 300,000 and we get 13.3 kopecks.
With 500,000 cans, 40,000 is divided by 500,000 and we see 8 kopecks.
With 600,000, what can we expect?
We can expect that the cost per can will decrease.
Indeed, we divide 40,000 by 600,000, but what happens?
It turns out that we no longer need to divide 40,000, but 80,000,
because we will have one shift added.
That is, it turns out that we will have 13 kopecks again.
That is, with the production of 600,000 cans, the volume of production is higher than the predictability range,
which means that another shift should be added and another shift master should be hired.
And now, from the analysis of the separateness of constant and variable costs,
we will move on to the analysis of the point of cost-payment.
The task is to determine the point of cost-payment and use the marginal profit to determine the point of cost-payment.
The analysis of the point of cost-payment uses the basic elements of the analysis of the cost-payment volume
to determine the point of cost-payment.
That is, we see that this type of analysis is called the analysis of the cost-payment volume.
What is required for the analysis of the point of cost-payment?
What are the prerequisites?
First, the income is equal to the total cost.
When the income is equal to the total cost, what do we get?
We will not have a profit, but we will not have a loss.
And only after that does the company begin to receive a profit.
The next term is the safety margin.
Under the safety margin, the number of units sold or the volume of sales in rubles is understood,
with which actual sales may fall below planned sales without loss for the company.
Let's see what the general equation for calculating the point of cost-payment will look like.
We use Latin denominations to denote the necessary elements of this equation.
These denominations are common all over the world, so we can use them.
Sales are denoted by the letter S, which corresponds to the English word sales.
Variable costs are denoted by the Latin letters V and C, which means variable costs.
Constant costs are denoted by the Latin letters F and C, which means fixed costs.
Sales minus variable costs minus constant costs are equal to zero.
This is the general equation for calculating the point of cost-payment.
We see it.
S minus VC minus FC is equal to zero.
Sales minus variable costs minus fixed costs is equal to zero.
For example, a company with a limited liability, Metal Product, produces decorative cast-iron stands.
Variable costs are equal to 500 rubles for a cast-iron stand.
Constant costs are on average 200,000 rubles per year.
Each stand is sold for 900 rubles.
The task is to calculate the point of cost-payment for stands in units of sales, where X is the number of units of sales.
We use the formula we just analyzed.
S minus VC minus FC is equal to zero.
Sales minus variable costs minus constant costs is equal to zero.
If we substitute 900 times X instead of S, what is 900 times X?
Each stand is sold for 900 rubles.
X is the number of units of sales.
900 times X is the number of units of sales.
900 times X minus 500 times X.
X is the number of units of sales.
500 times X is the number of variable costs.
Minus 200 times X is the number of constant costs.
So, in this equation, 900 times X minus 500 times X minus 200,000 is equal to zero.
First, we calculate the point of cost-payment in units.
X is equal to 500 units.
Let's go back and remember how we get this figure.
900 minus 500 times X.
If we calculate X, we get 900 minus 500 is equal to 400.
So, we get 400 times X minus 200,000.
Or 400 times X is equal to 200,000.
To calculate X, we divide 200,000 by 400.
Thus, X is equal to 500 units.
400 times X is equal to 200,000.
X is equal to 500 units.
Next, we calculate the point of cost-payment in rubles.
We multiply 900 by 500.
What is 900?
900 is the price of one stand.
500 is the number of units we produce.
900 times 500 is equal to 450,000 rubles.
We calculated this equation.
If X is equal to 500 units, we get 450,000 rubles.
We multiply 900 by 500.
I took a scheme that uses international denominations.
This scheme shows the denominations of all terms used in this task.
We see the value of $20,000.
These are the constant costs.
$20,000.
Next, we see the fixed costs.
Next, we see the variable costs.
The line of variable costs is from the constant costs.
The line that goes above the line of the parallel axis of the abscissa is the line of variable costs.
Next, we see the variable costs.
$50 per unit.
These are the variable costs.
Next, we see the constant and variable costs.
These are the total costs.
Next, we see the income line.
The word revenue is used to denote the income.
The total revenue line is the income line.
Next, we see the red line.
This is the loss line.
When the costs are higher than the income.
Next, we see the green line.
This is the profit line.
When the costs are higher than the income.
Next, we see the points where the costs intersect.
In this example, we see that 500 units.
When we calculate 500 units, we see that the profit is equal to zero.
The loss is equal to zero.
We see that the costs are equal to the income.
We see that all these terms have their application in the international context.
They are common in the world and have the same meaning.
Thank you for watching.